DOCS-1030: Make `upboard` page (#1692)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/components/board/upboard.md

---
title: "Configure an upboard board"
linkTitle: "upboard"
weight: 70
type: "docs"
description: "Configure an upboard board."
images: ["/icons/components/board.svg"]
tags: ["board", "components"]
# SMEs: Susmita
---

> Configure a `upboard` board to integrate an Intel-based board like the [UP4000](https://github.com/up-board/up-community/wiki/Pinout_UP4000) into your robot:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure an `upboard` board to integrate an Intel-based board like the [UP4000](https://github.com/up-board/up-community/wiki/Pinout_UP4000) into your robot:
```

{{< tabs name="Configure an upboard Board" >}}
{{% tab name="Config Builder" %}}

Navigate to the **Config** tab of your robot's page in [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
Click on the **Components** subtab and navigate to the **Create component** menu.
Enter a name for your board, and select the type `board`.
Next, select the **Model** card.

> Type in `upboard` and hit enter to select the `upboard` model.

Author: this is necessary bc it's not pre-populated right now but is still built into the rdk

Reviewer 2: I just added the the model to the register. If you can check if the model shows up on the latest branch, that would be great!

---
title: "Configure an upboard board"
linkTitle: "upboard"
weight: 70
type: "docs"
description: "Configure an upboard board."
images: ["/icons/components/board.svg"]
tags: ["board", "components"]
# SMEs: Susmita
---

Configure an `upboard` board to integrate an Intel-based board like the [UP4000](https://github.com/up-board/up-community/wiki/Pinout_UP4000) into your robot.

> ## Set up requirements

Reviewer: Hmm that'd be a big reorg. Most of the boards have a "requirements" box that is pretty attention-grabbing right now (though not in keeping with the style guide, since it's a unique title and it's a use of caution when it should be green or blue). I think it makes a certain amount of sense to have those setup guides in a separate place because:
- You can install viam-server on them before/without ever configuring a board, so it's really a separate process from configuration
- Some of those setup instructions are long and wouldn't fit nicely on the config page

Options that seem reasonable to me:
- Move these setup instructions to the setup guide, and follow the current format of the other boards with this one (i.e. yellow req's box). Be sure to mention the Setup tab at the end of such instructions.
- Since these instructions are quite brief compared to other setup guides, leave them on this page, and put a little "Important" box at the top saying you have to do this
- Leave as-is, because frankly, these instructions are right here in front of peoples' faces and if they made it to this page, they will likely see them. This page isn't terribly long.

I'm kinda worried that folks won't even arrive at this page at all--should this board be part of the carousel? And if you decide not to put it in the setup guide, do you think it'd make sense to add a link to it from the setup guide? Or is this an obscure board such that we don't really care?

Flash your Intel-based board with:

1. The Ubuntu `"Server install image"` version of the operating system. For example, `ubuntu-22.04.2-live-server-amd64.iso`.
Follow [these instructions](https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/install-ubuntu-server) to do so.
1. The [pin control driver](https://github.com/up-division/pinctrl-upboard).
Follow [these instructions](https://github.com/up-division/pinctrl-upboard) to do so.
This driver stabilizes the [GPIO pin mapping definition](https://github.com/up-board/up-community/wiki/Pinout) on the board to make it identical to a [`pi`](/components/board/pi/) board.

> 

Reviewer: Should this include that they need to install viam-server and connect it to the app? Not that they can't technically configure it before it's connected, but I think we should point them in the right direction

---
title: "Configure an upboard board"
linkTitle: "upboard"
weight: 70
type: "docs"
description: "Configure an upboard board."
images: ["/icons/components/board.svg"]
tags: ["board", "components"]
# SMEs: Susmita
---

Configure an `upboard` board to integrate an Intel-based board like the [UP4000](https://github.com/up-board/up-community/wiki/Pinout_UP4000) into your robot.

## Set up requirements

Flash your Intel-based board with:

1. The Ubuntu `"Server install image"` version of the operating system. For example, `ubuntu-22.04.2-live-server-amd64.iso`.

> Follow [these instructions](https://ubuntu.com/core/docs/install-nuc) to do so.

Reviewer 2: Let's remove the link, the steps are kind of unclear. instead use this link https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/install-ubuntu-server#1-overview 
sorry for not sending you this earlier.

Author: Oh ok amazing no worries! I just couldn't find a better one originally

> Follow [these instructions](https://ubuntu.com/core/docs/install-nuc) to do so.

Author: ```suggestion
Follow [these instructions](https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/install-ubuntu-server) to do so.
```

1. The [pin control driver](https://github.com/up-division/pinctrl-upboard).
Follow [these instructions](https://github.com/up-division/pinctrl-upboard) to do so.

> This driver stabilizes the [GPIO pin mapping definition](https://github.com/up-board/up-community/wiki/Pinout) on the board to make it identical to a [`pi`](/components/board/pi/) board.

Reviewer: Is "stabilizes" the right word here? It sounds as though without this driver, the pins would randomly move around or some such. Would "changes" or "standardizes" or "modifies" be more correct? Or
```suggestion
This driver makes the [GPIO pin mapping definition](https://github.com/up-board/up-community/wiki/Pinout) on the board to make it identical to that of a [Raspberry Pi](/components/board/pi/) board.
```

> This driver stabilizes the [GPIO pin mapping definition](https://github.com/up-board/up-community/wiki/Pinout) on the board to make it identical to a [`pi`](/components/board/pi/) board.

Reviewer 2: So rdk can not support upboard without the pinctrl driver. the pinctrl driver makes the gpio pins static. I didn't know how to word it. So I said stabilizes. But if you can find better wording for it, that would be great!.

> This driver stabilizes the [GPIO pin mapping definition](https://github.com/up-board/up-community/wiki/Pinout) on the board to make it identical to a [`pi`](/components/board/pi/) board.

Author: You might still disagree @JessamyT (and other suggestions welcome!) but I think that this wording here and use of `pi` is good as-is. The technical thing within the RDK i believe really does need to make the _mapping_ code the same as `pi` and keep that "stable", aka anchored to the object of code that forms the mapping

> This driver stabilizes the [GPIO pin mapping definition](https://github.com/up-board/up-community/wiki/Pinout) on the board to make it identical to a [`pi`](/components/board/pi/) board.

Reviewer: Ah okay cool!

> This driver stabilizes the [GPIO pin mapping definition](https://github.com/up-board/up-community/wiki/Pinout) on the board to make it identical to a [`pi`](/components/board/pi/) board.

Reviewer: Then I'd still say:
```suggestion
This driver stabilizes the [GPIO pin mapping definition](https://github.com/up-board/up-community/wiki/Pinout) on the board to make it identical to that of a [Raspberry Pi](/components/board/pi/) board.
```

{{< tabs name="Configure an upboard Board" >}}
{{% tab name="Config Builder" %}}

Navigate to the **Config** tab of your robot's page in [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
Click on the **Components** subtab and navigate to the **Create component** menu.
Enter a name for your board, and select the type `board`.
Next, select the **Model** card.
Type in `upboard` and hit enter to select the `upboard` model.

Click **Create component**.

![An example configuration for a upboard board in the Viam app Config Builder.](/components/board/upboard-ui-config.png)

Edit and fill in the attributes as applicable.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="JSON Template" %}}

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "components": [
    {
      "name": "<your-upboard-board>",
      "type": "board",
      "model": "upboard",
      "attributes": {
        "i2cs": [],

>         "digital_interrupts": []

Author: Not sure we need to do this here. Info is provided if you want to add one of these, but at baseline as far as I understand users do not need to.

      },
      "depends_on": []
    }
  ]
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

The following attributes are available for `upboard` boards:

| Name | Type | Inclusion | Description |
| ---- | ---- | --------- | ----------- |
| `digital_interrupts` | object | Optional | Any digital interrupts's {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="pin-number" text="pin number" >}} and name. See [configuration info](/components/board/#digital_interrupts). |

> | `i2cs` | object | Optional | Any Inter-Integrated Circuit (I<sup>2</sup>C) pins' bus index and name. See [configuration info](/components/board/#i2cs). |

Author: this is the same everywhere for boards so could you propose this change in a separate pr if you want to make it?

> | `i2cs` | object | Optional | Any Inter-Integrated Circuit (I<sup>2</sup>C) pins' bus index and name. See [configuration info](/components/board/#i2cs). |

Author: the wording that is! I'm not attached to this wording I just don't want to make this particular page inconsistent.

> | `i2cs` | object | Optional | Any Inter-Integrated Circuit (I<sup>2</sup>C) pins' bus index and name. See [configuration info](/components/board/#i2cs). |

Reviewer: ok
